
Rep. Francis Rooney, R-Fla, is a businessman who represents Florida’s 19th Congressional District.  The southwest Florida district spans from Fort Meyers in the North to Naples in the South. Democrats have primarily held the district over the past decade. Rooney, a freshman congressman, is the owner of environmental and retail construction company Rooney Holdings, Inc, based in Naples.Rooney hails from Muskogee, Oklahoma, the city made famous by Merle Haggard’s country song. He previously served as President George W. Bush’s ambassador to the Holy See, or the Vatican. Rooney is Catholic. Described on his website as “a successful businessman who brings decades of private sector experience to Washington,” Rooney supports business-friendly legislation, including regulation and tax reform. Rooney serves on the Education and the Workforce, Foreign Affairs, and Joint Economic committees. His main issues are the economy and jobs, education, and water quality restoration in the Everglades region.Rooney’s signature issue, though, is the conservation, restoration and cleanup of the Everglades waterway. To this end, legislation enacted--the Water Resource Development Acts of 2007, 2014, and 2016 pursuant to the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Project--needs to be followed-up on, as work started has not been completed, although funds have been appropriated.  Rooney’s legislative focus on the Everglades has been shared by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. McCarthy has traveled to the region with Rooney to see the extent of the infrastructure and rehabilitation work needed.  The area of concern contributes to $2 trillion of economic impact across 164 cities and 16 counties.Earlier this month, Rooney met with president Trump to promote Everglades restoration, according to a recent press release. Rooney emphasized that the Everglades project should be part of the Trump Infrastructure package, and he made sure it had a place in the Department of Management and Budget’s recent document.